#labels Manual,RFP
#RFP tips and tricks

= Introduction =

Results File Plotter (RFP) was written as an alternative to Excel for quickly viewing experimental results- particularly from traversed instruments- quickly and easily. It has evolved to allow final output of results by passing data to gnuplot for publication-quality graphing.


= Details =

RFP ingests Results files produced by Measurement.vi- although has been extended to work with other file types also. It is fundamentally a column-based plotter, where each row describes one measurement point. Data can be filtered based on the value of multiple columns, and the resulting data subset can be plotted, any column against any other. Surface plots and vector plots of the filtered subset are also possible, as is saving of all, or some, columns of the subsetted data.
A "template" file controls the names that will be used for columns when plotting. This allows columns from disparate sources, with differing names, to be brought in to a single column.
Also stored in the template file, for each desired column:
  * "tolerances" to be used for "binning" slightly different values- for instance jittery traverse locations- into a single group. Also the precision with which to display that column.
  * "maths" definitions, allowing a column to be created which is a mathematical combination (within a single row) of columns.
  * Omit rows having particular values
  * Replace text strings- useful for "normalising" comments
  * Ignoring based on strings in other columns (does this omit the whole row, or just NaN/ blank this "cell"?)
There are also options per column for "Minimum value", "Folder level", "Summarise" and "Dispose", whose meanings may now be lost in the mists of time...!

= Usage =

To start a new project, for which you don't have a template file, the workflow goes something like...:
  * Start RFP from the Post Process tab in EnFlo Hub
  * RFP will attempt to load its previous data and template, allow it, and then press Stop, or abort if required.
  * In the "Load" tab, delete the text in the "Template" path box
  * Press the "Empty File Array" button
  * Start RFP using the Run Arrow
  * You will be prompted to select data to plot; navigate to the file, or folder, of interest
  * If you selected "Selection of files from a folder", select the subset of files in the folder you wish to plot.
The file will be read in, and all channels in the file (which can be an overwhelming number!) will be available to plot, or use as selectors. At this point, you will probably want to make a template file, to reduce the number of columns available, and to improve their names over those used at acquisition time...

===Creating a Template File===

To make a template file:
  * Press "Edit Template File", top-centre on the panel.
  * Choose a name and location for the template file; it can be helpful to give it the "fake" extension ".tpt" to remind yourself what it is. Template files are tab-separated plain text, and _can_ be edited in Excel if required, tho this can be challenging.
  * Next it is usually easiest to use "Add New Channels from file" to choose which columns from the results file you *do* want to work with.
  * This presents a list of all the columns present in the results file, in a multi-selectable listbox. A filter is provided to find specific channels more easily. Channels need not all be selected in one "hit"; a few can be selected and then "banked" with the OK button, and then further channels added, to avoid tricky multi-selects.
  * The selected channels will now appear in the Edit_Template_File.vi listbox. Highlighting a channel in the listbox will bring up its details in the cluster on the right.

====Improving and sorting channel names====
You could now start plotting with the channels you've chosen, but... Now is a good time to shorten, simplify, clarify the names of the imported data, and maybe change their order:
  * Highlight a channel in the listbox- for example "Date:of:Measurement"
  * In the topmost box, replace this with the desired, shorter, channel name- such as "Date". Be sure after changing the name to click elsewhere on the panel to confirm your text entry.
  * Repeat for all channels whose names you'd like to simplify
  * To change the order of channels, or remove any accidentally included, press "Organise Channels"; this allows you to nudge channels, or multiple channels, up or down the channel order, and delete single or multiple channels (with a warning)


====Adding Maths channels====

Now, you might like to try plotting your data...! Press "OK" on the template editor.
On the "Plot" tab, the channels created in the template will be available in the ordinate and abscissa selectors. Any channel can be plotted against any other- a typical example may be hotwire velocity vs height, Z. In this case, with U used as the ordinate and Z the abscissa, the "Transpose" button in the bottom-right of the panel can be used to put Z on the vertical axis, as is usually preferred. In "Multi Ordinate" mode two values- for instance mean and variance of U- can both be plotted against Z. And here we see the need for two things...: If data has been taken at multiple locations, we need to filter it, to show coherent profiles taken at specific points rather than all profiles as a single series; and we need to do some maths, most typically to normalise velocities and calculate turbulence intensities from variance...
To do this:
  * Click Edit Template File
  * Press "Add New Channel Named"; in the dialogue that pops up, type your desired channel name- for example "U/Uref". _Note that for final output, LaTeX typesetting is used in gnuplot, so true subscripts may be obtained with e.g. `U_{ref}`_
This newly-created channel will attempt to source from a column of its own name- which will not exist in a "fresh" results file; we are going to define the contents of the column using an equation, combining other columns we have available:
  * Press "Edit Maths Equation"
  * Increment the "Number of Variables" as required- in this case, 2.
  * Using the selectors and intervening string boxes at the bottom of the panel, assemble the required equation; the "Maths Equation Symbols" box shows a simplified view of the overall expression.
  * Press OK to return to the template editor screen.
  * You may wish to use "Organise Channels" to promote the new maths channel to a sensible position in the channel list. _It is permitted for a maths channel to precede a channel it is based on- however, if a maths channel relies on a preceding maths channel, they must appear in order_
  * On pressing OK on the template editor, you will return to the main plotter screen and the new channels will be available to plot.
Note that edits to the template file are saved automatically each time you change it. If you wish to rename a template file- for instance to "fork" it for another purpose- you can enter a new name in the Edit Template File panel before pressing OK. The template will be saved to the new name, and the template file path in RFP will be directed to the new template file.

===Working with Selectors===

You now have nicely normalised values to work with... But still, all your series are mixed up! Now is time to start filtering. Often, the first thing you need to know is what the jumble of points on your plot comprises; two buttons on the "Plot" tab help with this- "Show Results Analysis" and "Show Plot Analysis". The former reports on the entire contents of all results files currently loaded; the latter, just on the data present on the plot, which will typically be a filtered subset. On pressing either button, a window pops up showing the ranges, or lists, of values present in each templated channel. Numeric values will be "binned" according to their tolerance (more later...) while textual values- for instance textual metadata- will be listed. Looking down the list of controlled (rather than measured) variables will allow you to see what data is contained in the set you are viewing. For instance, you may have Z profiles taken at a number of X and Y locations, for a number of different experimental setups.

An additional tool which can be useful for identifying differentiating features from mixed profiles is the cursor. If it's not visible, right-click on the cursor symbol in the cursor list (bottom right of panel), and select "Bring to Centre". The cursor can them be manipulated and placed on data points; all the data for that point will be displayed in the "Cursor" tab.

When you've identified what distinguishes the multiple profiles that are being displayed, you can start using the selectors- the top-right portion of RFP- to limit your plot to one or more subsets of the data.
The first two selectors- edged in yellow and red respectively- allow you to select multiple values, each of which is displayed as a separate series on the graph. The final- green- selector allows you to select multiple values which will _not_ be displayed as separate series; this is often useful when applied in the negative sense, using it to exclude a particular group of data that you do *not* want plotted.

Let us take a hypothetical case where profiles have been taken at multiple X and Y locations, at multiple tunnel speeds... We can assign the first, yellow, selector to X location, and the second, red, selector to the Y location. The third, single selector, can be used to select a single value of Uref. At this point, you may notice rather more decimal places than can be defended in the X and Y positions; indeed, positions which are nominally identical in X may differ by enough to appear as separate series- say 1419 and 1422mm, which were nominally identical but differ by a little traverse uncertainty. This is where we use tolerances, stored in the template file. Every channel starts with a default tolerance of "1"- which may or may not be appropriate!
Press Edit Template file to get to the template editor....
  * Highlight the channel in the listbox whose tolerance you wish to change
  * In the "Tolerance" field of its cluster, set an appropriate tolerance that will allow nominally-identical to fall within a common "bin". The bin centres are computed dynamically based on the data, and the tolerance is applied around these centre values.
  * While there, set an appropriate "Precision" to use for the display of the variable.
When you press OK, the data will be re-read from file and the tolerances and precisions applied; hopefully your filters now look neater, with fewer choices, each comprising a coherent group of data. It can take a little trial-and-error to get tolerances correctly set, as the bin centres adjust automatically as the tolerances change, so some experimentation may be needed to ensure data "clumps" together as desired.
In the case being considered, using a large traverse, X tolerance was set to 10mm, with a precision of 0DPs, Y tolerance 5mm with 0DPs, and Z tolerance 1mm with 1DP. Uref tolerance was set at 1, with 1DP, after experimentation, as this successfully separated the two test velocities of ~10.4 and 14.9m/s.
With tolerances correctly set, profiles taken at multiple X and Y locations can now be plotted as separate series for comparison.

=== Surface Plots===

If you have amenable data, it can be plotted as a surface plot- often a useful qualitative way of checking data, and sometimes quantitatively useful for computing e.g. area averages. To switch to surface (Intensity) plotting, press the "XY Plot" button- which will change to "Intensity Plot".  At the lower-right of the panel, use the pull-down selectors to indicate which channels should be used for the X, Y and Z variables of the plot. _Note- these need not actually be X, Y, Z coordinates- they merely represent the axes of the variable space you wish to slice through_
Having defined the axes, use the "slice selector" to choose which plane to display. Since the surface is interpolated between the actual data points, each slice can be computed in two ways- for instance a ZY Slice, or a YZ Slice- corresponding to which direction interpolation is first performed. Use the "Update" button to the right to ensure your selection has been applied. The Red and Yellow multiselectors will be automatically set to the correct channels to allow a slice to be plotted; for instance, a ZY Slice will present an X selector and a Y selector- this allows an X-station to be selected at which to plot the slice, and some or all of the available Y locations at that station to be used to form the surface. It can be helpful to be able to omit some Y stations, for instance if there is a vertical profile in the same X plane as a number of lateral profiles, and only the lateral profiles are required to form the surface...
If there are multiple points satisfying the same location criteria, they will be averaged together before the surface is computed; this may or may not be what is wanted- often not- so a flashing warning indicates that this has occurred. Use "Show Plot Analysis" to identify why there are duplicate points present, and use a selector to pick just one set...

===Vector Plots===

Having selected a plane of data, it may be amenable to 2-D vector, or 3-D scalar, plotting, for instance if two components of velocity are available, or 2-D location and a scalar value. With a coherent set of data displayed in either an XY or Intensity plot, press the Vector Plot button. A panel will pop up in which you indicate which variable to assign to which axes of the plot.
For the common case of a cross-stream YZ slice, the X-axis would be the Y location, and the Y-axis the Z location; the "U" component (parallel to the X-axis) would be V, and the V component (parallel to the Z-axis) would be W. _Keep a clear head..!_
A button at the bottom of the panel allows scalar variables to be plotted- this would typically be used for surface concentrations- perhaps using X as X, Y as Y, and plotting concentration as "U". This renders a 3-D plot, with the scalar being plotted as a point at a height equal to its value over an X-Y plane.

==Saving Data==

Having sliced out a particular group of data, you may wish to save it for further processing or plotting in other packages. Options for doing this are found in the "Save" tab; the simplest being "Save Data Rows":
  * First set the filename for your output _If you forget, you *can* change it in the next panel!_
  * Make sure you are plotting the data that you wish to output; it doesn't matter which variable you are plotting, so long as you encompass the data _rows_ that you require.
  * Press "Save Data Rows"; the Output_file_Panel pops up.
Should you need to, you can now edit the output file path- although without the benefit of a dialogue box. Handy if you just need to append a number to a filename, for instance...
Selector boxes now give you some options-
  * Row Selector allows you to choose between saving just the data that is currently plotted, or all the rows that are loaded
  * Summarise Data can add a data summary header- showing ranges, averages, or lists of each column- above the data rows themselves. By default, all channels will be summarised; however, it is more likely one might want to provide a summary of just the "input" conditions- for instance measurement locations- and maybe the principle measured variables. This can be controlled with the "Summarise" boolean for each channel, set using the template file editor. "Show ONLY data summary" will output a file just showing the ranges or listed binned values _of those variables selected in "Channels to Tabulate in Header"_ The summary will indicate the limits of those variables which appear to be continuous, means of those which appear to be constant, and bin centres and number of members for "clumpy" variables...
  * Column Selector allows you to choose which columns to include in the output file- either all the columns in the template, all the original columns in the results file, or only selected columns from the template- very useful for producing a minimal data file once all the "quality assurance" and raw source data (e.g. Variances...) channels are no longer required.
If "Only Selected Columns" is chosen, the "Channels to Output" listbox is editable, and just a subset of all the available channels can be highlighted. When a maths channel is output, the computed value- not the "formula"- is recorded- much like Excel's  "Paste Special> Values". This means that e.g. you can choose to save computed turbulence intensity, without saving the contributing mean and variance channels. The saved channel will still work with the template you are currently using, as the TI maths channel first looks in a file to see if the TI column exists, and uses that if available, before attempting to compute a value from source columns.

  * "Channels to first "bin" then output" allows you to create new columns, based off the channels you select, but whose values will be fixed at bin centre values, based on a tolerance you specify in the array which appears when a channel is highlighted. As an example of where this can be useful, consider a file containing profiles taken at two different reference velocities; Uref on every line will be slightly different, but essentially there are runs at 10 and 15 m/s; adding a binned column for Uref will mark *all* the ~10m/s rows with their exact average Uref, and the 15m/s with _their_ exact average Uref, easing future manipulation of the data by removing "jitter" in what are meant to be fixed values. The actual, varying-by-row value of Uref is still saved to file, assuming it is highlighted to be saved. The actual value of the variable does _not_ have to be saved in order to save its "binned" version.

Once the required settings have been selected, pressing OK will cause the file to be created and saved. In the case where the file already exists, the option is given to Append, Overwrite, or Cancel. While RFP is kept in memory, all the settings of the Output_File_Panel are conserved, which is useful if repeatedly dumping data in the same format.

====Save Plot Data====

This will save *just* the data shown in the current plot, followed by a summary table, including just those channels for which "Summarise" is TRUE in the template.

====Save Surface Plot====

This saves the _interpolated_ data of a surface plot to a regular grid that can- for instance- be contour plotted in Excel. The file includes sufficient header summary metadata to identify the data included.

====Save Averaged Rows Together====

The purpose and function of this is best illustrated by the use case which originally spawned it: suppose you have 16 profiles over a building, and wish to reduce this to a single, average, profile....... TBC...